Welcome everyone. Thank you. Thank you very much. Welcome. And now, again, we discuss
the teachings about the gracious teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni, and as well as the great Yabji Vinyu
Rinpoche, the echo of the essence teaching of Buddha Shakyamuni.
So we follow that instructions. Now, advice to the fortunate students. And so we're following that.
And that, again, in here, in a sixth line of these words,
they have the strong confidence, confidence with trust, trust that the three jewels are an imperil
able source of rapture. I kind of highlighted this in here.
I highlighted that. But in the teaching here, I said three jewels, trusty, and imperilable. Those
are the three kind of points, man.
So now we're talking about three jewels. I'm going about three jewels. And we're reminded to each
other about three jewels.
We all talk ruffles. We all have the ruffled ones. So we oppose, we all know about the Buddha dharm
asanga.
It's just that every day we do practices, and the child and the tech ruffled, we know that. But
again, it's just that we activate it.
That memory and knowledge is very good and is a part of our practices. And also is a part of the
practice of the virus, studying, contemplating that.
So we're kind of starting that and then contemplating of those kind of little bit of deterral
meanings of those, each point.
That's what really we've been doing. And we discussed about the Buddha here, Buddhas.
And now we're going to go back to dharmas here today. And Dharma is a symbol to tell his message in
the teaching of the Buddha.
Buddha who is embodied, oh, Buddhas are the embodiment of loving, loving kindness, compassion, and
wisdom, and for all living beings, or love and compassion, for all living beings,
understanding everything exactly, clearly as it is. And that's really about Buddha. So therefore,
that was also Buddha's practices.
Whether Buddha, the male Buddha or the human Buddha, they practice it, they meditate it, and they
then become the Buddha, so that means they achieve the ultimate state of loving kindness,
compassion, and the Muslim.
And therefore, then they're also sharing their same realization, how they're reaching enlightenment
, their wisdom, their knowledge, their understanding, their experience, their sharing to us.
And that is the message of the teaching of the Buddha. So that is Dharma known as, in the Dharma,
as I said, it has meaning of the correct thing and a protected thing.
At the same time, although it has meaning of the kind of, when you hold, you hold, or kind of, let
not fall down, or fell down in the ditch or the samsara, so it will kind of held up that.
Those are the meaning of the Dharma, as well. So that is really Dharma.
In Dharma, then we have mentioned it yesterday, about Dharma, there is the Dharma of the scriptural
Dharma and the realization Dharma.
And the scriptural Dharma is then, what in the teaching said, it is the path and the cessation are
the, the really Dharma, path and cessation.
So that means, practicing of the teaching, in the realization of the teaching, is really the Dharma
, Dharma.
But that we won't get immediately, we won't get immediately realization, and we have to also know
how to practice it.
So therefore, then the scriptural Dharma is, scriptural Dharma.
The scriptural Dharma is, then, as I said, it can be divided, the scriptural Dharma of the Buddha's
teaching.
And the scriptural Dharma of the commentary of the great masters on the Buddha's teaching, those
are the true, true kind of division of the scriptural teachings.
And now, again, the Buddha's teaching, over there is the commentary teaching, but all is best or
essentialized into three, three meanings.
And those meanings are morality, concentration, and wisdoms.
And with those statements, those are the meaning, meaning of the Dharma.
We are making of those different, different three points, such as morality.
The morality teaching is mainly explaining of the Vinaya teachings.
The Vinaya teaching is mainly explaining the morality teachings, or the conduct, or the ethics.
And Sutra teaching is mainly teaching on the concentrations, above the minds, mainly in that.
And Abhidharma teaching is mainly teaching on the worst levels.
And knowledge, variety of the knowledge, knowledge on the absolute level, knowledge of the relevant
truth, those are what we went through yesterday.
There will be really about that.
So those are known as the scriptures, teachings of the by Buddha Shakyamuni.
Then the commentaries of the teachings, those also represented the teachings, commentary teachings
on the Vinaya, commentary teachings on the Sutra, commentary teachings on the Abhidharma.
Those are also known as scripture teachings.
Those are qualified teachers, one who wrote and composed those teachings.
Through the compassion and through the loving kindness, common kindness, and when they wrote those
things, those are the scripture teachings.
Those are according to teaching, highlighted, such as those qualified masters, what are the
teachings here?
The best qualified teacher is the one who understands the perfect realization of the true nature.
That's the meaning, for example, "pasta boomis" or maybe more, more than that.
And the second of those qualified teachers are the one who understands the direct communication
with the Buddhas and Bodhisattvas, direct communication.
And that means also their heart and mind are filled with love, kindness, and compassion, and also
kind of remove the summary of the self-important ego clings and worldly concerns.
Those really remove this filled heart, and more gentle, more peaceful.
And because of those beautiful qualities and practices, they have the ability to have the
connection, the regular communication with the Buddhas and Bodhisattvas.
So those are known as the middle couple of the practicing.
And the third couple of those practicing, those masters, known as one who understands the perfect
meaning of the old five art of sciences.
Those five sciences are perfect knowledge.
Buddha is teaching total knowledge, such as Vinaya teaching, Sutra teaching, Abhidharma teaching,
all the Vedayana teaching, mayana teaching, the Pandayana Buddhist School teaching.
All those clearly, perfectly, beautifully, and with the intention of like to clarp, clarification
of the teaching, like to benefit to the other beings.
That intention, we don't have any self-important or any reason, really love and kindness and
compassion, and respect and appreciation, and something of clarification that should prevent
benefit to the others.
Others then wrote the commentary, those are known as the third couple of the practices, higher,
medium, and then lesser couple of those.
Those are, and those were wrote in such as high cover, whether blood-grade masters, such as nadunas
, basu-vendus, asangas, and then as well as sangurapimas, sambhava, or santa-rachata.
All those are high in the cover, blood practice. I mean, grade masters.
And then as well as the, maya also could be medium, too. One has communication, those categories.
And then third one is, is one who knowledge, perfectly, beautifully knows all the teachings, and
plus other knowledge of those, like, those are known as the qualification masters who wrote the
books and commentary.
So that is really the, basically about dharma. Again, as I said the other day, and you all know,
nature of dharma, again, I say, simply, simply say, nature of dharma is non-violence, and truth,
and peace.
Peace, and harmony, and respect, and appreciation to all living beings.
And discover metal that will discover our innate nature and beauty of all these objects, all these
phenomena.
That is really the teaching. That is the symbol which tells the message for the teaching of dharma,
dharma.
Now, again, I'll tell you something, a little bit, to highlight that, maybe more simplifying of
this description and realization I translated. Realizations.
And, again, as I say, simple examples, what is scripture, the secret of the teaching. For example,
when we read or learn, taking lives of others is not good, is unwholesome, is not good.
Taking lives of others, doesn't matter who were there, is not good, according to Buddhism.
When you know that, when you understood that, that is known as spiritual knowledge. We understand.
With that knowledge, we follow that activity, that teaching, follow that, and always try and hope
for, not taking lives of other beings.
When we apply that teaching, that is realization. That is your applying the meaning, not just only
intellectuals, but your applying.
So, that is known as a simple way to tell of the difference of the scripture and realization.
In other words, for example, we see all in the teaching, all the phenomena are emptiness.
When you heard that, and with that, all the different reasons you went through, all the teaching
went through,
and something you got, or that already makes sense, is all emptiness.
When you got that knowledge, that is known as the knowledge of the scriptures.
When you had that knowledge, and you start meditating, and meditating, and get some degree of that
meaning,
taking to your mind, or to your heart, that is realization. So, that is what is.
The old method in the teaching always means realization is the true Dharma.
Realization is the true Dharma, all but Dharma. So, that is really about the Dharma.
Now, I said yesterday, I am going to mention, this scriptural Dharma can be divided, Sutra, sorry
Vinaya, Sutra and Abhidhana.
Dharma, we said, then where is, for example now, maybe you are wondering, where is Vighyana
teaching?
Is this part of the Sutra, or is part of the Vinaya, or is it part of the Abhidhana, it is the
thing.
And again, there are different teachings, great masters interpreted, and following also, according
to the teaching of the Buddha.
Buddha, and so, for example, as I take the quotation yesterday, from the king of all creation,
then Buddha gave 84,000 teachings, and 21,000 is Vinaya teaching, principally connected to
discipline,
discipline the attachment, and or discipline the attachment, Buddha gave 21,000 Vinaya teachings.
21,000 teaching, Buddha gave Sutra teaching, or to dispel or discipline, remove the anger.
And 21,000 Buddha gave teachings, or to dispel the ignorance.
Anyway, so now at the moment of 20, 84,000 teachings, how many we count? We count, I believe, 63,
000 we went.
So now they still have 21,000.
In that Sutra teaching, 21,000 Buddha gave the teaching of the Vinaya teaching in order to dispel
all the emotions.
So that means attachment, anger, angering, all targeted 21,000 Buddha gave teachings.
So therefore, in that way, we, in a way, pour different, not just three baskets of teaching, pour
different baskets of teachings,
according to Vedic energy. So if we added Vedic energy, it makes it pour baskets of teachings, that
teachings.
Then many graduate masters also said, "Oh, the Vedic energy can be summarized within the three
baskets of teachings."
Because Vedic energy has the same nature, Vedic energy has a teaching of morality, Vedic energy has
a teaching of concentration,
Vedic energy has a teaching of wisdom, so therefore it can be summarized just in a three-pitaka, or
three basket of teachings.
And what are the morality teachings of Vedic energy? All the Samaya teachings, general Samaya
teachings,
perceived Samaya teachings of those who are from the deities, those are all known as morality
teachings, ethics teachings.
Anyway, again, also there are so many meditations, concentrations.
So many different meditations, such as vocabulary teachings, characterize the complete state of
practices.
So complete state of practices and vocabulary teachings, all those are, then, concentration
teachings.
Teachings, it's concentrated teachings. Now, all these great
imprenised teachings, such as Mahamudra teachings, other Dzogchi teachings, Thichu teachings, those
are ultimate teachings on the westerns.
And therefore, it all can be summarized into these three categories of the baskets.
Vinaya basket, sutta basket, abhidharma basket.
Basket is if we translate, not just we, English translated, into English.
Basket in Tibetan is the nu, nu, nu, and in Sanskrit is the pitaka, and the pitaka is also a
container.
So those are the three basket teachings.
Then sometimes Dharma can be also divided into two groups, all teachings,
and Dharma of the basic Buddhist school teaching, and Dharma of Bodhisattva Yamas.
So, Theravada teaching and Bodhisattva teachings, or Yana teachings, so true teachings.
The nature is the same, those three extraordinary trainings, such as morality and concentration,
and westerns are the same.
But at the very kind of how to summarize, how I like that, how to bring, capture the meaning, the
essence, the understanding of this, entirely the reach of the teachings.
So, Theravada or the Norwegian Buddhist teachings, and the Mahayana teachings.
And Mahayana teaching can be divided into two, and casual Mahayana teachings,
and that which is Sutra teachings, and Rizod Mahayana teachings, which is Vaidyana teachings.
So, those are known as descriptions of the dharmas.
So, as I said other day, or yesterday I said, Dharma we will understand in three ways,
nature, division, and benefits, power, or power of the benefit.
So, now what we went, we went nature of the dharma, and we went descriptions of the dharma,
descriptions of dharma,
or descriptions on the division of dharma, so the division of dharma.
And now, the benefit of dharma, power or the benefit of dharma is simply in the Buddha teaching
says, power over dharma is inconceivable.
It's inconceivable.
It's just even the hearing, the names of the Buddha, Dharma, Sangha, it will make the end of sams
ara.
And even the names of hearing of the Buddha, Dharma, and Sangha, it will open the door to the
enlightenment.
And then every practice, it has so much power of powers.
From that on, we are more settled.
From that on, we begin to see value in the important region of our own self.
And we know at that moment, we understand value in the importance of all other living beings.
That moment, that means we begin harmony, peace, respect, appreciation.
As we continue to practice meditating and activate that teaching into the heart and mind, the power
grows, power deeper in it.
Power is common as like building sunlight begin to now shine in the heart and mind.
And that will shine, illuminate our own heart and mind, so we will have the benefit of all the
beings.
And we are reversing the direction of the samsara by practicing dharma.
So this is really so powerful, so special.
And there are so many beautiful stories, even the hearing, the names of the Buddhas, Buddhas or
Buddha, Dharma, Sangha.
It came out of completely troubles.
In the teachings in ancient time, some Martians went on the ocean to get the jewels.
Always in the teachings, they were going to get the jewel, the material jewel from the ocean.
And then they returned back to the land.
And then they had the big troubles, big troubles of the second, second or the item.
The item came there and there is nothing to do with anything.
They are completely there, everyone has a danger in their lives.
But immediately they call to that time.
That time is like those like, I mean not those like that time, but it is still living as physical
forms in India.
So they somewhat know about the Buddha and they just pray to the Buddha.
That immediately they call in the teaching Buddha a bird right above the sky and then protect it
from that danger of typhoons.
So this is really one of the examples.
There are many, numerous examples in the Buddhism.
Buddhism by practicing meditating, it protected every vein and difficulty, troubles and fulfill all
the wishes.
Then we have stone of course, devotions and then it comes so beautifully, perfectly.
And those are where you all know in the teachings of the world.
So my part of the teachings and as well as many other sources.
So you can see how powerful and how benefited it is.
So those are really about Dharma now.
So now among the three jewels we talk about the Buddha, we talk about Dharma.
And now I go all the way above the Sanghas.
Now first I talk Sanghas.
Sanghas is a Sanskrit word in the Tibetan translated as Gendun.
In the eighth century those are great emanated in the last letters.
And during that meal, during that time of the Kintasong Dibli, Guru Peyam Mahasanghavan, Great
Master, Shen Dalakkulas.
During that time, this Sangha has translated it to be Gendun.
In the English I think we kept loosely, everyone said not Sangha.
So it's kept the same Sanskrit word.
But what in the Tibetan translated how is there is two words.
Gay and Dindun.
Gay means virtuous.
Dindu means devoted.
Devoted.
So devoted to the virtuous.
Or connected to the virtuous.
Devoted or very much devoted.
Devoted to the virtuous.
So that means, virtuous of course, we all discuss, I think quite a lot before those who are causing
effort in inevitable time.
We did, and of course we all know that too.
Virtuous is ten virtues.
Three by the body, four by the speech, three by the mind, as we listed, then you know too.
So those are known as virtues.
So Sanghas are devoted to these virtues.
So that a symbol to their actions, body activity is gentle and peaceful.
Their verbal activity is gentle and peaceful.
And their mind activity is more gentle and peaceful.
And therefore, all their activities of the bodily speech, mind, amo, calm and peaceful, virtuous.
And that also means burn, means in Tibetan translated, means devoted.
How long until we reach the enlightenment?
After we discover the final result, we devote it.
So that is not just only for a short time devoted, but keeping that.
When we do this, what is this?
Also, when we are devoted to the virtues and discipline our activity of the bodily speech, mind,
then what is it?
That captures the essence of the Buddha teaching.
All those three basket teachings, what we are talking, all those meditation teachings, all that is
really what captures.
We are keeping.
That is Buddha, the greatest teacher, Buddha Shakyamala himself said,
"Avoiding negative activities, perform the positive activities, discipline your mind. This is my
teaching."
That is what the greatest teacher said.
That's it.
Avoiding negative activities, perform the good activities or benefit your positive activities,
discipline your mind.
What means discipline your mind, for example?
Discipline, of course, we think immediately wild mind.
It's true, wild mind.
But also it means cause of that quiet.
Emotions, anger, jealous, it's important.
Then fundamentally cause of ego clean.
Just clean that. Avoid that.
Avoid that.
Then that is really, we capture essence of the Dharma, essence of the teachings of the greatest
teacher,
teaching Buddha Shakyamuni and Gaurapayama Sambha, all the great masters.
Even maybe we don't have big names, these and that things.
Things that we capture, we are drawn to the earth.
Drown to the earth, we are settled.
From that on, that practitioner, the Sangha member, is on the way to the enlightenment,
way to benefit all the beings.
So that is really, again I maybe went to that kind of like straight up there,
but that is the meaning of the Sangha.
Sangha was devoted to the rituals.
So that is.
And now, so that is the old meaning of the Sangha.
The nature of the Sangha.
Again I talk the same way as I spoke with the Dharma.
According to the teaching and the nature of the Sangha
and the division of the Sangha and the benefit of the Sanghas.
Those are three different ways I talk.
And nature is also, as can be understand, as pretty much identity of the Sanghas.
So nature and identity are the most same things.
So what is the nature of the Sangha?
The nature of the Sangha, some maybe have the understanding of the realization
or perhaps of some realizations and also some really purified negativity.
That is known as Sangham, the nature of the Sangha.
Identative Sangham.
Sangham.
So one who is, is purified,
some relief of the negatives or process of the purified negatives
and some relief of the realization coming, coming,
or the process of the realization coming, that is the relief of the Sangham.
That is the Sanghas.
And now, how many Sangha members?
Again, if we show, there is the Sangha members.
Karjini is again show.
Sangha members of the Theravada or the Pundit (Buddhist) School.
Sangha members of the Mahayanas.
Mahayanas.
And that also, the Theravada Sangha member or the Pundit (Buddhist) Sangha member
also can be divided according to their realizations.
Those are, they ever say, positive movies.
Or sorry, positive part, second part, third part of those things.
All this is also known as poor results.
Poor result of the realizations.
Now, ensuring continuation.
And returning one time, non-returning,
and Ahadapho, those are the poor different realization levels
are mentioned in the Pundit (Buddhist) School.
But if I just kind of simple, powerful one might be, most of the time,
I think you know that the Sangha members of the past part,
second part, and third part, fourth part.
And then, fifth part.
Maybe that's what we understand.
And the first part as of course, many of you already know,
I will just name, those are the accumulation part.
And second is the application part.
Third is seeing part.
And the fourth is the meditation part.
And fifth is no more studying or Ahadapho, part or realizations.
Those are the five parts.
And then, accumulation part.
Simple again, you tell.
Accumulation part, you do a lot of meritorious activities.
Particularly, meritorious activities of the physical,
mentally or physically, verbally meritorious activities.
Those are accumulation part.
Roughly or handsome.
With devotion, with courage, with commitment, with determination,
you do these things.
And concentration.
All the morality practices.
Concentration practice.
Bustin practice.
And the application part, that means from the accumulation part,
now you reach to the application part.
That means, now your strength of the practice is stronger.
More stable.
Stronger.
In a way, it is now one way.
Highway is not too many.
Lingering back and forth.
Almost one way.
One way that you reach the highway.
Highway that.
And then, get realization.
And all your courage and commitment,
confidence, those are growing or deepening.
And those are, and also are some knowledge,
understanding of the knowledge of true nature,
of the emptiness is coming.
Or emptiness, self-emptiness, such as egolessness.
Those realization is dawning.
This dawn of realization is booming or shining.
That is the application part.
And the next one is the seeing part.
And the seeing part, you're now seeing the true nature,
exactly as it is, or egolessness realization,
exactly as it is without the intellectual.
Now you're not dependent on the intellectual egolessness status.
You really see, truly, it is emptiness.
Ego, it's free from the egos, free from that.
So application also means, from that on, it is applying now.
It is conducting.
It is a bridge to the realization.
Until we reach the seeing part,
according to the seeking, we all practice,
and those are known as individualists, individual.
Brother.
Individual.
Or only.
But seeing part, when you reach the seeing part,
that individually, now not just the only person,
they are known as noble.
In a debate, it's a pop-up.
Pop-up.
You now become the noble.
Because you're noble, you're elevated
from the duality of the ego clings, in a way.
You come out of that trap.
So, therefore, it's called noble, noble.
And then meditation part is,
so, therefore, all the Sangha members,
one after another, those are different Sangha members
of the Theravada, or the basic Buddhist schools.
And then, Mahayana, again, two gurus.
There is the Vedayana Sangha members,
and then Mahayana Sangha members.
Mahayana Sangha members are what is known as bodhisattvas.
Mel and females.
And Vedayana Sangha members are named as,
not named, known as, vedaydara, male and females.
Or yogi, in a yogi-ness, those terminologies.
But reality is all Mahayana, according to teaching.
All Mahayana.
And again, they again begin to practice.
Sangha members of the first Bhumi, second Bhumi, third Bhumi,
all Sangha members pass the path.
I mean, same thing, that equivalent.
But this time, more realization, and I said,
it is much more deeper, much wider,
and intention towards the more stronger and more deeper.
And therefore, it's called also Mahayana.
So, those are all Mahayana Sangha members.
And so, that is Mahayana.
And now, I agree with this,
that's how Mahayana is summarized.
But now, I talk again to these all Sangha members,
they were divided, not me,
is divided into two groups.
Again, only Sangha members.
And noble Sangha members.
Only Sangha members is just a regular Sangha member,
beginning to practice.
Those are the only Sangha members.
All Sangha members, whether they are Theravada,
or whether they are Mahayana or the Vedayana Sangha,
those who have the realization,
they are the noble Sangha members.
Sangha members.
And these only Sangha members,
to make only Sangha members what we have to be,
or to become an older Sangha member, what we have to be.
A coded teaching, take the vows.
Vows, all those are the Raphudi vows,
all such as the Opasaka vows,
all the Sharmas, there are Noah's monks,
monks or nuns,
or pulling all the monks and nuns,
take the vows.
You keep the vows.
Read that vow, whatever you have there.
Keep that vow and start meditating and practice it.
Practice it.
With that meditation, practice it.
Also meditating on the great emptiness,
all the according to the teachings, equalizing,
so whatever you receive the teachings.
Practice it.
So that means, now you are keeping the morality,
you are keeping the concentration,
you are keeping the wisdom, all combined together.
That is known as, then,
that is how to start beginner Sangha members,
or beginning Sanghas.
Then every level of this strongly,
particularly that only Sangha member
could become to the novel Sangha members,
according to the teachings.
So that is really about the division of the Sangha members.
Sangha members.
That is about the benefit of the Sangha members.
Again, what is really in the Buddha teachings is Sangha.
So what can you say?
The benefit of the Buddha is inconceivable,
the benefit of the Dharma is inconceivable,
and the benefit of the Sangha is inconceivable.
So this is really, again, inconceivable.
By practicing the Dharma,
Bharma, in the journey with the Sangha members,
from that on, that individually become
the object of veneration that the Buddha teaches.
And the great Buddha, the Buddha Shakyamuni said,
"No matter how bad my followers,
but they will be still quite better than many others."
Others say, "Even, even you have to practice the Dharma,
even did they activate it too strongly,
but still that individual has more knowledge
of the loving kind of the completion,
respect and appreciation for all the living beings,
more open mind, more practical, more known to the earth,
more kind of with more common senses,
more senses and common senses,
those are really in the teachings said, "It has that."
And then wearing the robes of the Dharma kind of symbol of the Dharma
in the teachings said that those teaching symbol of the robes
or the Buddha robes is like honor.
Even the God's realm, to hear the heaven,
God's will honor the robes of the Sangha members
or the shredded robes of the Sangha members
because it symbolizes peace and harmony.
Peace and harmony respect all the Sangha beings.
So then we continue to carry on that,
and then truly we are Sangha members, the object of rafuddhi.
I take rafuddhi in the Buddha,
I take rafuddhi in the Sangha,
I take rafuddhi in the Dharma.
That's what really teaching said.
So that is really my talk about Buddha-Dharma-Sangha.
Again, Buddha-Dharma-Sangha is generally in Buddhism,
three object of rafuddhi are Buddha, Dharma, and Sangha.
In the very young teaching,
there are also slightly different names,
sometimes named rafuddhi,
take rafuddhi in the Lama,
take rafuddhi in the deity or yidam,
take rafuddhi in the dakinis.
Those, then I can go tomorrow and talk again,
all those things.
But that is generally Buddhism.
That is the object of rafuddhi or three jewels in Buddhism.
Okay, thank you very much again, everyone,
and thank you for participating.
Thank you, thank you.
Thank you very much.